report/README.md, before:

# Report: LogProcessing-MapReduce

- Author: [Lakshmanan Meiyappan](https://laxmena.com)
- NetID: [lmeiya2](mailto:lmeiya2@uic.edu)

LogProcessing Map-Reduce is a Collection of Map Reduce program to process Log Files and extract information. This project can be configured to work with Log Files of multiple types without any changes to the Code base, and just by modifying the applications.config file.

This project was done as part of __CS441 Engineering Distributed Objects for Cloud Computing__ under Professor Dr. Mark Grechanik at The University of Illinois at Chicago.

### Index
1. [Project Structure and Log Files](./ProjectStructure.md)
2. [Cloning and Compiling the Project](./CloningAndCompiling.md)
3. [Job1: LogLevel Frequency](./Job1_LogFrequency.md)
4. [Job2: Most Error in Time Interval](./Job2_MostError.md)
5. [Job3: Longest Substring matching Regex](./Job3_LongestRegex.md)
6. [Job4: LogLevel Frequency Distribution in TimeIntervals](./Job4_LogFreqDist.md)
7. [Limitations and Future Improvements](./Improvements.md)
8. [Resources and References](./Resources.md)

### Demo:
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_YpnZizzuwM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Video demo link update in report

report/README.md, after:

# Report: LogProcessing-MapReduce

- Author: [Lakshmanan Meiyappan](https://laxmena.com)
- NetID: [lmeiya2](mailto:lmeiya2@uic.edu)

LogProcessing Map-Reduce is a Collection of Map Reduce program to process Log Files and extract information. This project can be configured to work with Log Files of multiple types without any changes to the Code base, and just by modifying the applications.config file.

This project was done as part of __CS441 Engineering Distributed Objects for Cloud Computing__ under Professor Dr. Mark Grechanik at The University of Illinois at Chicago.

### Index
1. [Project Structure and Log Files](./ProjectStructure.md)
2. [Cloning and Compiling the Project](./CloningAndCompiling.md)
3. [Job1: LogLevel Frequency](./Job1_LogFrequency.md)
4. [Job2: Most Error in Time Interval](./Job2_MostError.md)
5. [Job3: Longest Substring matching Regex](./Job3_LongestRegex.md)
6. [Job4: LogLevel Frequency Distribution in TimeIntervals](./Job4_LogFreqDist.md)
7. [Limitations and Future Improvements](./Improvements.md)
8. [Resources and References](./Resources.md)

### Video Demo:

Note: Click on the image to navigate to the Video Demo:

[![LogProcessing AWS Video Demo](https://img.youtube.com/vi/et5_2hc6MWo/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/et5_2hc6MWo)
